
--- Page 1 ---
Department of Veterans Affairs
VHA 106A WMC HROO PerSec Contractor Team
CONTRACTOR REQUEST
(Email to: VHAWMCPerSecContractor@va.gov)(Make sure to encrypt only or password protect)
CONTRACT INFORMATION
VA Contracting Officer Name & Email:
COR Name & Email:
Contract End Date (Including Options):
VISN & Station#:
Purchase/Task Order or Contract Number:
Contractor Position Description:
Investigation Level (SAC/Tier 1/Tier 2/Tier 4):
Contract Company Name (Subcontractor):
Contract Company Address:
Contractor POC Name & Phone:
Contractor POC Email:
Contracting Officer/COR Signature:
***This signature verifies that an official contract is in place prior to processing the applicants for badging***
Contractor Personal Identifiable Information
--- Page 2 ---
Department of Veterans Affairs
VHA 106A WMC HROO PerSec Contractor Team
VHAWMCPerSecContractor@va.gov
VHA 106A WMC HROO PerSec Contractor Team SERVICES
OVERVIEW
The VHA 106A WMC HROO PerSec Contractor Team offers comprehensive services which ensures that
contractor security requirements are met in accordance with OPM and federal regulations from initiation to
completion.
Communication is maintained between the team POC, the contracting officer, the contracting officer
representative (COR) and the Contracting company point-of-contact at all times during the process. Due to
PII concerns, personnel not listed on the Contractor Request Form will be sent statuses from the Team POC.
If another entity requires this information, they must work through the CO, COR or Company POC. This
service provided includes the below:
Fingerprint adjudication:
o This involves a thorough background screening and adjudication of fingerprint along with
any self- declared information. The National Criminal History Check (NCHC) Form will be sent to
all contacts via email once the investigation is scheduled with the Defense Counterintelligence and
Security Agency (DCSA).
 Existing investigations:
o Verifying existing investigation information and collecting the required documents for reciprocity.
The required documentation would include the OF306 Form and Self-Certification Form. These
documents would be provided upon confirmation of investigation through DCSA's Portal.
 New investigations:
o Upon receipt of the Contract Security Services Request Packet and all required documents our office
will enter required applicants into the eApp system, review, return or release, and monitor the
investigation progress through completion.
 PIV Badges:
o Our office can only adjudicate PIV badges at this time. The COR on the contract or local personnel
must sponsor the contractor/s in the PIV portal prior to adjudication by this office.
To begin the process, please follow the below guidelines:
1. Upon notification of contract award, COR/local sponsor must ensure to pre-sponsor applicant fin
USAccess for fingerprints. Applicant must take 2 forms of ID to their print appointment.
2. Contracting officers / CORs complete and digitally sign the Contractor Request Form in its entirety.
All information is required. The packet will be rejected if this form is not complete or does not contain
the CO/COR signature.
3. Have employees complete all required documentation based on their risk level.
4. Submit complete packet to VHAWMCPerSecContractor@va.gov encrypted. Incomplete packets will be
rejected and returned. Complete packets will be assigned to a team member within 5 to 10 business
days dependent on workload. Subject line for the request submission email should be formatted as
shown below.
a. New Request Packet - Contracted Company 36C00000D0000 / 999-C202222
b. Status Request – Contracted Company 36C00000D0000 / 999-C20222 submitted on
00/00/0000
5. Do not submit new requests and additions more than once as this will result in duplicate assignments
and wasted time. If you have not received a response to your request within 5-10 business days, send a
status request to the mailbox using the above format.
6. If there is a change in the contracted personnel (resignation, declined appointment, etc.) immediately
notify the team member handling your request. The cancellation must be submitted via email.
7. Send any additions to our team member that is assigned the contract. We cc the sender of this packet
on that assignment so that you can work directly with that team member on all associated actions to
include re-issuances, turnover, questions, concerns, statuses, etc. If the packet is already assigned
and was not forwarded to the assigned member, we will reject that packet. This is so that we can
assign the new contracts as fast as possible for you.
--- Page 3 ---
Department of Veterans Affairs
VHA 106A WMC HROO PerSecContractor Team
CONTRACT SECURITY SERVICES REQUEST - INSTRUCTIONS
Purpose: The Contract Security Services Request is submitted to VHA 106A WMC HROO PerSecContractor Team to initiate the contract
security verification process. By submitting this form, our office will ensure that everyone listed have been fingerprinted, the fingerprints are
adjudicated, if necessary, background investigations are initiated or existing background investigations are current and PIV badges are
adjudicated. This form should be completed and signed by the contracting officer. Please refer to the instructions below when completing the
Contract Security Services Request Form #1.
Contract Information Section
Contracting Officer Name & Email: Please provide the post-award contracting officer handling this contract and their email.
COR Name & Email: Please list the Contracting Officer Representative (previously the Contracting Officer Technical Representative) and email.
The COR is the liaison between the contracting officer and contracted company.
Contract End Date: Please list the date in which the contract ends including all options to extend (for PIV badge expiration).
VISN & Station Number: Please indicate the VISN and facility station number where the work is being performed/facility to be billed.
Purchase Order, Task Order and Contract Numbers: Please list the purchase order number, task order and the contract numbers. Our
database is based on tracking contracts by station. Should the task order number change at fiscal year-end, please indicate on any future
requests by including any/all related numbers in parenthesis next to the new numbers.
Contractor Position Description: Please provide a position title for all individuals (ex: physician, consultant, electrician).
Investigation Level: Please indicate the background security requirements as provided by the PDT (Position Designation Tool)
https://pdt.nbis.mil This would include background screening or Fingerprint Only (SAC), low-level investigation (Tier 1), moderate-level
investigation (Tier 2) and high-level investigation (Tier 4). Please note that PIV-I badges (contract under 180-days) require at minimum a SAC,
full PIV badges (over 180-days) require a minimum a T1. If it is Tier 2 or 4, please provide a copy of the PDT to justify a higher-level investigation.
Contract Company Name: Please provide the name of the contracting company that will be providing the work under the task
order. Please provide subcontractors in parenthesis.
Contractor Address: Please provide the contracting company address.
Contractor POC Name & Phone: Please provide the main point-of-contact for the contracting company and contact information. This person may
be contacted to provide additional information or documents in the process. All communication with this individual
will include the contracting officer and COR.
Contractor POC Email: Please provide the email address for the company point-of-contact. This email will be included in all correspondence
regarding investigation and PIV processing.
Contracting Officer Signature: All contracts must be signed by the contract officer or the contracting officer representative (COR). This signature
verifies that an official contract is in place prior to processing the applicants for investigation and badging.
Contractor Employee Information Section
All information must be completed in the Contractor Personal Identifiable Information Section
N O T E: For foreign- born individuals, Please Check if you are a permanent resident or foreign national.
For investigations to be conducted and eligiblity for a PIV credential, individuals must have lived in the United
States for 3 consecutive years.
All background investigation request forms and supporting documents must be .pdf files and the
below naming convention used:
Station #_last name last four of SSN_form name
Example:
573_Jones1234_REQ
573_Jones1234_306
573_jones1234_SC