
--- Page 1 ---
Declaration for Federal Employment* Form Approved:
OMB No. 3206-0182
(*This form may also be used to assess fitness for federal contract employment)
Instructions
The information collected on this form is used to determine your acceptability for Federal and Federal contract employment and your
enrollment status in the Government's Life Insurance program. Most applicants are asked to complete this form after a tentative
offer of employment has been made; however, depending on your position, you may be asked to complete this form earlier during
the hiring process. Follow instructions that the agency provides. Before you are appointed you will be asked to update your
responses on this form and on other materials submitted during the application process and then to recertify that your answers are
true.
All your answers must be truthful and complete. A false statement on any part of this declaration or attached forms or sheets
may be grounds for not hiring you, or for firing you after you begin work. Also, you may be punished by a fine or
imprisonment (U.S. Code, title 18, section 1001).
Either type your responses on this form or print clearly in dark ink. If you need additional space, attach letter-size sheets (8.5" X 11").
Include your name, Social Security Number, and item number on each sheet. We recommend that you keep a photocopy of your
completed form for your records.
Privacy Act Statement
The Office of Personnel Management is authorized to request this information under sections 1302, 3301, 3304, 3328, and 8716 of
title 5, U. S. Code. Section 1104 of title 5 allows the Office of Personnel Management to delegate personnel management functions
to other Federal agencies. If necessary, and usually in conjunction with another form or forms, this form may be used in conducting
an investigation to determine your suitability or your ability to hold a security clearance, and it may be disclosed to authorized officials
making similar, subsequent determinations.
Your Social Security Number (SSN) is needed to keep our records accurate, because other people may have the same name and
birth date. Public Law 104-134 (April 26, 1996) asks Federal agencies to use this number to help identify individuals in agency
records. Giving us your SSN or any other information is voluntary. However, if you do not give us your SSN or any other information
requested, we cannot process your application. Incomplete addresses and ZIP Codes may also slow processing.
ROUTINE USES: Any disclosure of this record or information in this record is in accordance with routine uses found in System
Notice OPM/GOVT-1, General Personnel Records. This system allows disclosure of information to: training facilities; organizations
deciding claims for retirement, insurance, unemployment, or health benefits; officials in litigation or administrative proceedings where
the Government is a party; law enforcement agencies concerning a violation of law or regulation; Federal agencies for statistical
reports and studies; officials of labor organizations recognized by law in connection with representation of employees; Federal
agencies or other sources requesting information for Federal agencies in connection with hiring or retaining, security clearance,
security or suitability investigations, classifying jobs, contracting, or issuing licenses, grants, or other benefits; public and private
organizations, including news media, which grant or publicize employee recognitions and awards; the Merit Systems Protection
Board, the Office of Special Counsel, the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, the Federal Labor Relations Authority, the
National Archives and Records Administration, and Congressional offices in connection with their official functions; prospective
non-Federal employers concerning tenure of employment, civil service status, length of service, and the date and nature of action for
separation as shown on the SF 50 (or authorized exception) of a specifically identified individual; requesting organizations or
individuals concerning the home address and other relevant information on those who might have contracted an illness or been
exposed to a health hazard; authorized Federal and non-Federal agencies for use in computer matching; spouses or dependent
children asking whether the employee has changed from a self-and-family to a self-only health benefits enrollment; individuals
working on a contract, service, grant, cooperative agreement, or job for the Federal government; non-agency members of an
agency's performance or other panel; and agency-appointed representatives of employees concerning information issued to the
employees about fitness-for-duty or agency-filed disability retirement procedures.
Public Burden Statement
Public burden reporting for this collection of information is estimated to vary from 5 to 30 minutes with an average of 15
minutes per response, including time for reviewing instructions, searching existing data sources, gathering the data needed, and
completing and reviewing the collection of information. Send comments regarding the burden estimate or any other aspect of the
collection of information, including suggestions for reducing this burden, to the U.S. Office of Personnel Management, Reports and
Forms Manager (3206-0182), Washington, DC 20415-7900. The OMB number, 3206-0182, is valid. OPM may not collect this
information, and you are not required to respond, unless this number is displayed.
U.S. Office of Personnel Management Optional Form 306
Revised August 2023
5 U.S.C. 1302, 3301, 3304, 3328 & 8716 Previous editions obsolete and unusable
--- Page 2 ---
Declaration for Federal Employment* Form Approved:
OMB No. 3206-0182
(*This form may also be used to assess fitness for federal contract employment)
General Information
1.FULL NAME (Provide your full name. If you have only initials in your name, provide them and indicate "Initial only". If you do not have a middle name,
indicate "No Middle Name". If you are a "Jr.," "Sr.," etc. enter this under Suffix. First, Middle, Last, Suffix)
♦
2. SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER 3a. PLACE OF BIRTH (Include city and state or country)
♦ ♦
3b. ARE YOU A U.S. CITIZEN? 4. DATE OF BIRTH (MM / DD / YYYY)
YES NO (If "NO", provide country of citizenship) ♦ ♦
5. OTHER NAMES EVER USED (For example, maiden name, nickname, etc.) 6.PHONE NUMBERS (Include area codes)
♦ Day ♦
♦ Night ♦
Selective Service Registration
If you are a male born after December 31, 1959, and are at least 18 years of age, civil service employment law (5 U.S.C. 3328) requires that you
must register with the Selective Service System, unless you meet certain exemptions.
7a. Were you born a male after December 31, 1959? YES NO (If "NO", proceed to 8.)
7b. Have you registered with the Selective Service System? YES (If "YES", proceed to 8.) NO (If "NO", proceed to 7c.)
7c. If "NO," describe your reason(s) in item 16.
Military Service
8. Have you ever served in the United States military? YES (If "YES", provide information below) NO
If your only active duty was training in the Reserves or National Guard, answer "NO.”
If you answered "YES," list the branch, dates, and type of discharge for all active duty.
Branch From (MM/DD/YYYY) To (MM/DD/YYYY) Type of Discharge
Background Information
For all questions, provide all additional requested information under item 16 or on attached sheets. The circumstances of each event
you list will be considered. However, in most cases you can still be considered for Federal jobs.
For questions 9,10, and 11, your answers should include convictions resulting from a plea of nolo contendere (no contest), but omit (1) traffic
fines of $300 or less, (2) any violation of law committed before your 16th birthday, (3) any violation of law committed before your 18th birthday if
finally decided in juvenile court or under a Youth Offender law, (4) any conviction set aside under the Federal Youth Corrections Act or similar
state law, and (5) any conviction for which the record was expunged under Federal or state law .
9. During the last 7 years, have you been convicted, been imprisoned, been on probation, or been on parole?
YES NO
(Includes felonies, firearms or explosives violations, misdemeanors, and all other offenses.) If "YES," use item 16
to provide the date, explanation of the violation, place of occurrence, and the name and address of the police
department or court involved.
10. Have you been convicted by a military court-martial in the past 7 years? (If no military service, answer "NO.") If YES NO
"YES," use item 16 to provide the date, explanation of the violation, place of occurrence, and the name and
address of the military authority or court involved.
11. Are you currently under charges for any violation of law? If "YES," use item 16 to provide the date, explanation of YES NO
the charges, place of occurrence, and the name and address of the police department or court involved.
12. During the last 5 years, have you been fired from any job for any reason, did you quit after being told that you
YES NO
would be fired, did you leave any job by mutual agreement because of specific problems, or were you debarred
from Federal employment by the Office of Personnel Management or any other Federal agency? If "YES," use item
16 to provide the date, an explanation of the problem, reason for leaving, and the employer's name and address.
13. Are you delinquent on any Federal debt? (Includes delinquencies arising from Federal taxes, loans, overpayment
YES NO
of benefits, and other debts to the U.S. Government, plus defaults of Federally guaranteed or insured loans such
as student and home mortgage loans.) If "YES," use item 16 to provide the type, length, and amount of the
delinquency or default, and steps that you are taking to correct the error or repay the debt.
U.S. Office of Personnel Management Optional Form 306
Revised August 2023
5 U.S.C. 1302, 3301, 3304, 3328 & 8716 Previous editions obsolete and unusable
--- Page 3 ---
Declaration for Federal Employment* Form Approved:
OMB No. 3206-0182
(*This form may also be used to assess fitness for federal contract employment)
Additional Questions
14. Do any of your relatives work for the agency or government organization to which you are submitting this form?
YES NO
(Include: father, mother, husband, wife, son, daughter, brother, sister, uncle, aunt, first cousin, nephew, niece,
father-in-law, mother-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, stepfather, stepmother,
stepson, stepdaughter, stepbrother, stepsister, half-brother, and half-sister.) If "YES," use item 16 to provide the
relative's name, relationship, and the department, agency, or branch of the Armed Forces for which your
relative works.
15. Do you receive, or have you ever applied for, retirement pay, pension, or other retired pay based on military, YES NO
Federal civilian, or District of Columbia Government service?
Continuation Space / Agency Optional Questions
16. Provide details requested in items 7 through 15 and 18c in the space below or on attached sheets. Be sure to identify attached sheets with
your name, Social Security Number, and item number, and to include ZIP Codes in all addresses. If any questions are printed below, please
answer as instructed (these questions are specific to your position and your agency is authorized to ask them).
Certifications / Additional Questions
APPLICANT: If you are applying for a position and received a tentative/conditional job offer or have not yet been selected, carefully review your
answers on this form and any attached sheets.
APPOINTEE: If you are being appointed, carefully review your answers on this form and any attached sheets, including any other application
materials that your agency has attached to this form. If any information requires correction to be accurate as of the date you are signing, make
changes on this form or the attachments and/or provide updated information on additional sheets, initialing and dating all changes and additions.
When this form and all attached materials are accurate, read item 17, complete 17b, read 18, and answer 18a, 18b, and 18c as appropriate.
17. I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information on and attached to this Declaration for Federal Employment,
including any attached application materials, is true, correct, complete, and made in good faith. I understand that a false or fraudulent
answer to any question or item on any part of this declaration or its attachments may be grounds for not hiring me, or for firing
me after I begin work, and may be punishable by fine or imprisonment. I understand that any information I give may be investigated
for purposes of determining eligibility for Federal employment as allowed by law or Presidential order. I consent to the release of
information about my ability and fitness for Federal employment by employers, schools, law enforcement agencies, and other individuals
and organizations to investigators, personnel specialists, and other authorized employees or representatives of the Federal Government. I
understand that for financial or lending institutions, medical institutions, hospitals, health care professionals, and some other sources of
information, a separate specific release may be needed, and I may be contacted for such a release at a later date.
Appointing Officer:
17a. Applicant's Signature: Date:
Enter Date of Appointment or Conversion
(MM / DD / YYYY) MM / DD / YYYY
17b. Appointee's Signature: Date:
(MM / DD / YYYY)
18. Appointee (Only respond if you have been employed by the Federal Government before): Your elections of life insurance during
previous Federal employment may affect your eligibility for life insurance during your new appointment. These questions are asked to help
your personnel office make a correct determination.
18a. When did you leave your last Federal job? Date:
(MM / DD / YYYY)
18b. When you worked for the Federal Government the last time, did you waive Basic Life YES NO DO NOT KNOW
Insurance or any type of optional life insurance?
18c. If you answered "YES" to item 18b, did you later cancel the waiver(s)? If your answer to item YES NO DO NOT KNOW
18c is "NO," use item 16 to identify the type(s) of insurance for which waivers were not
canceled.
U.S. Office of Personnel Management Optional Form 306
Revised August 2023
5 U.S.C. 1302, 3301, 3304, 3328 & 8716 Previous editions obsolete and unusable