
--- Page 1 ---
VA DOCUMENTS
GUIDE
Please read this document before completing any of the forms provided.
General Information for ALL forms:
● Do not modify any fields that are already completed within the documents.
● Please digitally complete all blank fields within the following forms unless otherwise noted either here or on the
form itself (type your answers in).
● If you need to schedule a time to come to the worksite to fill out these forms, please contact EMAIL ADDRESS with
the request.
● Use the following format for all dates - MM/DD/YYYY
● When asked for your name, please include your first, middle, and last name every time. If you do not have a
middle name, please type "NMN" (no middle name).
o Ex. John NMN Smith.
● When scanning a document into your computer, a photograph will not suffice. The VA will reject it. You must use a
scanner or scanning application and the document must be completely straight with no marks, borders or creases
showing on the completed scan.
● All documents must be returned to EMAIL ADDRESS.
Document Naming Convention
● After completing all required fields in each document, please save and rename the file with the following information
(a sample filename is provided as an example)
● Station #_last name last four of SSN_form name
● Example:
● 766_Jones1234_REQ
● 766_Jones1234_306
● 766_jones1234_SC
VA Form 306 Declaration for Federal Employment (766_Jones1234_306
pdf)
● Please read the instructions carefully on this form.
● If you have no middle name, you should complete question 1 as follows:
o John, "No Middle Name", Smith
● Note, the most commonly missed question on this form is question 8. Please also note, you only have to answer 7b
and/or 7c if you answered “YES” to question 7.
● Complete all other fields first and then print, sign in black ink (a digital signature is not acceptable for this form
even if it LOOKS like it is) and scan the document in a pdf format.
o Note, the date format MUST be mm/dd/yyyy.
o If the text disappears when you save/print your file, please print to PDF first, then try saving/printing.
● The document must remain a single file, so please scan and upload all pages as a single pdf file and emailed to
EMAIL ADDRESS.
VHA Contractor Background Investigation Request Form
(766_Jones1234_REQ.pdf)
● Do not modify any fields that are already completed within the documents.
--- Page 2 ---
● Please digitally complete ONLY Individual Information section and current date (at the top).
o Do not check “Child Care”
● Once completed, please save in the naming convention above and email to EMAIL ADDRESS.
Self Certification of Continuous Service Form
(766_jones1234_SC.pdf)
● Check the box that best applies to you.
o Note, federal employment means you worked directly for the government. If you are employed by a
company contracted by the government, then you are not a federal employee, you are an employee of that
company.
o Most common answer is likely the last box which indicates that you have never had federal employment as
defined above.
● Complete all required fields first and then print, sign in black ink (a digital signature is not acceptable for this form
even if it LOOKS like it is) and scan the document in a pdf format.
● Once completed, please save and email to EMAIL ADDRESS.
Acceptable Forms of Documentation
● Provide a digital copy of 2 forms of ID. See attached acceptable forms.
o Note, one form of ID MUST be a social security card.
● These forms of ID must also match the information provide in this security packet.
● Copies must be emailed to EMAIL ADDRESS.